If you believe AI's going to have a big
impact, then you should try to stay
close to it. Think about the core things
that you are good at and figure out how
you could augment those with AI.
>> This is Chris Pedregal, CEO and
co-founder of Grain Note, the AI notepad
valued at $1.5 billion. He built it in 3
years and turned it into a standout
product in a crowded AI market. When it
comes to competing with big
corporations, is there still opportunity
to build something major in 2026?
>> There are a lot of products out there, a
lot of people trying to do things. It's
like, can you care more than everyone
else? There's so much advertising that's
happening that I think that if you don't
have a product that itself can like pop
out and get noticed and loved, it just
feels like a a losing proposition.
>> If you had to start from scratch today,
what would be your playbook?
>> I would definitely build
>> Welcome to Silicon Valley Girl. I am so
excited to be chatting with you because
we've been using Grain Note for, I
think, over 6 months now. I know you
launched earlier, but when we discovered
it and started using it, it's an amazing
product for our team. And what I'm going
to do, I'm going to launch a task right
now, so it starts recording so that at
the end of the conversation we'll be
able
>> to see notes.
>> to see how it actually works.
>> Yeah, perfect.
>> Back in 2024, you said it's so much
easier now to build very specialized
workflows for a small group of people
versus earlier cuz now you can use AI.
>> Yeah.
>> that with current AI tools we can build
something for a small group of people
because we don't have to use so many
resources, right? Cuz we can wipe code
all stuff, we can ship faster versus
like 10 years ago if you wanted to build
something you would need a huge team, so
serving small group of people wouldn't
really make sense. Do you think it's
still the case in 2026 or we moved to a
world where anyone can wipe code
anything so that you don't really need
to build a very specialized tool. What
is your me a of the market right now?
>> The one thing I know is that
everything's changing and it's it's hard
to predict the future just because
people can vibe code things doesn't mean
that we're only going to use vibe coded
software all the time. I think vibe
coding, building tools from scratch is
incredibly powerful if you're building
like an internal tool that your team's
going to use. I still think that there
are certain areas where you want to have
the best possible tool and that takes
tons of time and effort and care and
continued investment. So I do think
there will be lots of software out there
that exists, but it it's hard to predict
exactly where the line of what will be
vibe coded versus what will we pay for.
>> Do you feel like it's much harder to
build now cuz you have experience
building in pre-AI era comparing that to
building granola?
>> Harder now?
>> Yeah, just because I feel like the
market is so crowded. Like you see cuz
everyone can become an entrepreneur. If
10 years ago in order to build
something, if you were not a coder
yourself, you needed to find an
engineer. If you were an engineer, you
needed to find product person. So you
needed those resources. Feels like now
there are so many solo founders and the
market is really crowded.
>> Yeah, it's two sides of the same coin,
right? I think it's so much easier to
build now. You don't need as many
people, as many resources, which means
more people are trying it. It's kind of
like a when digital photography became
common. It used to be really hard to get
a camera, right? And then only a few
people had cameras, they were
photographers and then um digital
photography made it easy for everyone to
take photos, right? It doesn't mean that
professional photographers aren't still
needed and way better than your average
person. So I think it's the same thing
with starting products today. There are
a lot of products out there, a lot of
people trying to do things.
A lot of them aren't that good, right?
And I And I think
that's what it's all about. It's like
can you Can you care more than everyone
else and can you create something
better? Like I What What I have seen in
terms of The one thing that seems to
help an AI company break out from a
crowded marketplace is just that the
product actually works and is the
experience of using it is better than
than the alternatives. We see people are
more willing to switch for slight
improvements in products now. So it's
like people are very very attuned to the
quality of the products that they're
using. And in that sense, I think it's
it's no different than before. It's like
you you still you like it's just you
have to fight for that and you have to
you have to be really really focused on
it.
>> I really like how you said you have to
care more. I feel like that applies to
any niche where you're competing,
anything that you're doing. If you care
more than others, then this is kind of
this helps you
stand apart. Talk to me about launching
a product in the AI era cuz you didn't
do like a public launch. You started
with a few users, saw their reaction. If
you had to start from scratch today,
what would be your playbook?
>> Yeah, I think the the conventional
startup wisdom before was launch as soon
as possible, get feedback from real
users, and then iterate your way to to
something great. And I think because of
precisely what you said before, there's
so many people putting out slop, like
putting out crappy products, that it is
actually a differentiating factor, a
differentiating approach if when you
launch, when you come out into the
world, your product is better.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and so we we we didn't have this
whole strategy about building an AI. We
were just like our philosophy when we
were building Granola was basically
we'll do whatever it takes to learn as
quickly as possible what we need to do
to make our product better. And um
for the first year, uh
the way we learned the most was
literally by sitting next to someone,
watching them try to, you know, install
it and use it, figure out everything
that was wrong, go home, try to fix
that, do it again the next day with a
new person, and do that over and over
and over. And we didn't need to launch
publicly uh to learn what was wrong with
the product because every day we would
see exactly what was wrong with the
product by just watching one or two
people use it. After about a year, it
got to the point where it was like it
was actually pretty good for those folks
and we said, "Okay, it's it's now time
to to launch publicly because then we'll
learn at scale what's wrong with it, how
we can make it better." Um so that was
the approach we took and
I think that really really made the
difference. Well, like in in a world
where anybody can make software,
the only thing that really matters is
like how good of the is the software
that you're trying to use. So I would if
you said if I was starting it from
scratch, I would definitely
uh build in private or closed beta until
I felt really really secure that the
product was meaningfully better than
than the competition.
>> Yeah, and when when it comes to picking
out idea, was that your initial idea,
smart notes, or did you have to iterate
through ideas as well?
>> Yeah, ideas are are tricky, right?
Because it's like on one hand you want
to be thoughtful from uh strategic
standpoint. Like if I build in this
space, is it a dead end or is there a
big opportunity there, right? And that's
kind of high-level thinking. Um and then
on the other hand, really a lot of
building is it's it's it's better not to
think and it's better to just put
something in front of people and and and
learn how they react to it and and kind
of uh follow that, you know? And um
and I think when you're if you're trying
to think about a startup idea, you want
to do both of those things. You want to
make sure you're building in a space
where there's uh there you know, there's
legs. Yeah, there's a future, exactly.
But then it's sometimes better not to
think too deep. Like once you make that
bet,
uh it's almost better not to think at a
high level and an abstract level and
really just to like follow the scent in
terms of what people like. And um in
2022, I I came across LLMs for the first
time. This was about um 8-9 months
before ChatGPT launched and I was
immediately I was like convinced. I was
like, "Okay, this I don't know what this
new technology is, but it's going to
it's going to change everything. It's
going to change all the the tools we we
we use for work, for productivity." I
felt that very strongly and I knew um I
knew that was in a space I wanted to
build in and be excited about. But then
when we had to figure out where to
start, that's where
we put some prototypes in front of
users, in front of people, and
they didn't care about most of them, but
this idea of like a real-time notepad
that would take notes for me and that I
can interact with. People's eyes really
lit up when we put that in front of
them.
>> Was it like a just word by word
description of what you want to build,
or did you vibe codes?
>> Well, vibe coding wasn't a thing. Yeah,
vibe coding wasn't wasn't quite a thing,
but it was more the vibe code. It was
I'm a big believer in prototypes, so
like
cheap, basic prototypes that let people
actually mess around with a thing. I
feel like you're going to learn a lot
from that. So, my co-founder and I built
a few different prototypes, and the the
notes one was just it was just some
JavaScript on an HTML page that that we
threw together manually, but it was
enough to give you a
a flavor of what it would be like if it
if it worked properly.
>> How did you select those first people
who were evaluating your idea?
>> Friends, friends of friends. It was just
people we had access to.
>> Was there any qualification criteria?
Cuz now that I'm thinking about it, if
I'm trying to build something, I also
want it to put in front of the right
people, like people who are maybe paying
for a lot of tools, people who are
working in a big corporation, so they
have access to, you know, some budget,
because just randomly asking people
>> Yeah, that's that's a good point. Maybe
we were a little bit more thoughtful
about it than that. Like we built
Granola for ourselves, and by ourselves
we mean
people who are like knowledge workers,
tech savvy, are using different types of
tools, like live in tools like Slack and
Linear and
Superhuman and Gmail. So, the folks that
we would talk to were often times folks
working at startups of different sizes
just because that was kind of the the
environment that we were in.
>> What was your criteria of deciding
whether to drop idea or continue working
on it? Was just like somebody said yes,
or were you tracking something? I know I
was talking to Josh Woodward from
Gemini, and he said the way they test
products at Google, they watch how eyes
light up when users start testing it.
So, they don't really have a metric.
They're like they're relying on this
intuition that they're seeing this.
>> Kind of surprising for a company like
Google, right? Where you expect like a
metric after metric.
>> Yeah, it was very very intuition and and
qualitative. And in the early days it
was the opposite. It was watching a lot
of people being frustrated and and and
unable to actually like use the thing
the way they we wanted them to.
>> When it comes to
competing
with big corporations, right? Cuz we
have Zoom, who has AI like every
product now has AI notes. Can you walk
me through your mindset, entrepreneurial
mindset? Cuz when I'm building something
and I see a large company releasing
something similar, like my first thought
is always, "Oh, I'm done." But then I'm
like, "Okay, we're going to make it
through."
>> Things are moving so quickly and
companies are launching things all the
time. And I think now we've all gotten a
bit more used to it, but maybe a year,
year and a half ago it would just felt
like, "Oh, the world's like just like
the sky is falling and and the world's
changing every 5 minutes." When we
launched Granola, AI note-takers
had already
been around like the earliest ones have
been around for like 7 or 8 years. So,
there were tons of AI note-takers. The
Zooms and the Googles of the world, they
already had AI note-takers. Not as
advanced as the ones they have now, but
they they already existed. And when we
would go and we'd
interview people and try to understand
like
were they using them, were they being
useful or whatnot. It became really
clear that uh
they were only like marginally useful.
Um and they weren't actually kind of
doing the job that people wanted from a
tool like that. I guess what I'm saying
is like we kind of did it to ourselves
cuz we entered this like crazy saturated
space. And I think we were able to break
out because even though Zoom or Google
create notes and Granola creates notes,
the the
the way we've designed Granola, the the
way we think about it is just very very
different from those tools. And Granola
is very much a it is your personal tool.
It's like your personal notepad that you
are in control of and you you can put
notes in there. I can go into Granola
and I can basically chat with all my
meetings from the past 2 years. Um and
as the AI models get smarter, the level
of like insights or the level of a
conversations I can have across that
corpus gets smarter and smarter.
>> Yeah, I would love to talk to you about
that later in this interview cuz uh this
is like if a company's not recording
their meetings, I think they're losing
uh 50% of what they can build later with
all of these insights they're getting
cuz this is their employees' taste. This
is the way they make decisions. This is
the way they move. And the only way to
teach AI how to mimic or enhance that is
to record all of
>> it the context. Yeah, yeah, exactly.
>> yeah, it's the context. Exactly, all the
data. I want to thank the sponsor of
this video, Granola. Granola is one of
the apps I use every single day. There
is a rule that I made for myself. If a
task repeats and it's not the work that
actually makes me money, I automate it.
Cleaning up meeting notes was one of the
first tasks I actually automated with
AI. Every call I take, strategy
partnerships, team syncs, intro chats
gets recorded and sorted. And because
I've been doing this for a long time
now, at the start of every new call with
the same person, I have a clean list
ready. What we agreed on last time, what
I still owe them, what they still owe
me. It's not a bot that joins your call.
Nothing is really visible to the other
side. You stay fully in the conversation
and after the meeting, Granola
transcribes everything and turns it into
a clean summary you can work with. And
of course, at the beginning of the call
you disclose that you will be recording
this with Granola. So, here's my real
example. Last week I was in a
partnership call. We were going through
financials, timelines, deliverables.
There were a lot of moving pieces and my
manager was not part of that call, but I
really wanted to send her a follow-up
email. I felt really engaged in the
conversation. I could focus on the
person I was talking to without having
to take notes of every detail because I
knew every number and every date would
get captured. After the call, I opened
the transcript and I just asked Granola
to create that follow-up email, pull out
a list of deadlines. Drafting the email
part took me about 25 seconds and I
copied and pasted. That's it. As if my
manager was on the same call with us. My
team and I have been using this for a
few months.
>> Miss fewer things, which really matters
because with AI the number of tasks
we're tracking has actually gone up a
lot. If you want to try it, use the code
Marina and get 3 months free. The link
is in the description and now let's get
back to our conversation with
Christopher.
>> For an entrepreneur who's starting today
and thinking, "Okay, I really want to
build this tool, but I'm afraid that a
big company's going to release a similar
I don't know if you watched Google I/O,
but they released a very similar tool to
WhisperFlow.
>> Oh, did they?
>> It looks the same. This little bar
appears, has the
but the the difference says,
>> Yeah.
>> while you're talking to it, it also
references all the files you have in
Google Drive and Gmail. So you can say
like, "Oh, by the way, insert a table
using this data." and it's going to do
it. So it's not only transcribing, it's
also adding context. And I'm like, I can
see how I'm still using WhisperFlow cuz
I'm I want just the transcription, but
also see how I'll be using more of that
as well. Like can you give advice to an
entrepreneur who's building something,
but again, constantly in this era when
everyone's competing with
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> It's a great question, right? And it's
one of those things where it's I think
if anyone had a crystal ball and and
could say like, "Okay, there's there's
an extreme world where we are only using
like there's only one tool in the
future, right? We use it for
everything." and there's a different
version of the future where we use even
more tools than we have today. And I
think we'll end up somewhere in the
middle, but it you know, it's hard to
know exactly where we'll be. The way I
would think about it is so that it's
basically it's a two by two matrix. It's
basically how frequent is the use case
that you're going after and how
important is it for the user. It's like
if it's an infrequent use case,
then I think it'll be really tough to
compete with the the larger companies or
the larger tools that are more
established. I think the
if it's an infrequent use case, people
will go to the ChatGPTs or the Clouds
most likely, right? In the same way that
you didn't see a lot of verticalized
search engines in like the 2000s because
people were just going to Google and
it's easier they have a habit and that's
where they would go. So, I think you
have to choose a uh
a use case that's very common. Um
because if it's common, you have a you
have an opportunity to build a habit
around it. And there, the question is
like is it a common use case that the
user doesn't really matter if you do a
much better job at or is it a is it a
use case that's really, really important
to people, right? And if And I think
you want to be in that corner where it's
basically it's very important to people
where if the product experience is even
just like 10% better, like that's that's
reason enough for people to switch to
you and use it. And if you're in that
quadrant, then I think it goes back to
this if you care more and that's the one
thing you can do over the big companies
is like you can just care more cuz they
have to care about a lot of things,
right? Um
then you can build that better product
and I think you can you can compete.
>> Do you think we should add a niche to
whatever you just said? Cuz I feel like
if you're just going after a frequent
use case for billions of people, then
it's a big corporation kind of play
field. But if it's a niche, like for
your product, it's like people who are
fixing their productivity and want to
record, want to be more effective with
their notes.
>> Yeah, or you become a really big company
one day. I think that's the Yeah.
We definitely want to have billions of
people using Grain at some point.
>> That's And And you're moving into B2B.
You started as B2C company and now you
moved into B2B. How's How's that shift?
>> Well, yeah, it's a it's a good point.
Our strategy was to mimic uh like a
Slack or Dropbox, like those types of
bottom bottoms-up companies. So, it's
basically a
uh product-led growth. So, the idea that
someone inside of a company discovers
Granola, they fall in love with it, they
tell their their colleagues, we kind of
grow organically inside of the company,
and then at some point someone in a
position of authority, maybe it's like
the founder, maybe it's the the chief
compliance officer, what have you,
legal officer, security officer says,
"Whoa, everyone's using the software. We
should we should probably like pay for
it, have control over it, make sure we
know where our data's going and all that
stuff." And that was always the plan. We
always knew that we would be selling to
companies. Um
but at the beginning we were just
worried of now we just focused on just
trying to build something people
actually wanted and and and liked.
And that that worked. So, Granola did
spread like virally organically
throughout companies. And now
we have some very very large companies
who are on enterprise plans with
Granola. But it all started either
bottoms-up where it kind of it spread
through the company virally or the
founder or CEO was using like heard
about it was using it themselves and
found it valuable and said, "Actually,
everybody should should be using it."
>> I think it's a great B2B marketing plan
when you start with a consumer. How did
you get to those initial customers?
>> We posted on Twitter.
Like that was basically
>> just like the founding team or
>> Yeah, yeah, I think we posted it from my
account and I I didn't really have a
Twitter following at all and I think we
just we got really lucky. It was this
idea the way Granola works is like it
looks like Apple Notes. It's a notepad
and then at the end of the meeting it'll
take whatever notes you wrote and it'll
flush it out and there's this really
nice animation where you see your your
notes get like filled in. And
we had a GIF of that and at the time I
think a lot of the
like the startup founders or leaders out
there were really
interested in new UIs or interactions
around AI and so we had a few famous
like Guillermo from Vercel retweeted my
tweet and then
and then Nat Friedman also retweeted.
So, it's basically there somehow, and I
don't know it's like the universe made
this happen. Like, it just caught a few
people's eyes, and
and they tweeted about us, and then we
just started growing. Like, the first
day I think we got 500 installs, you
know? So, it's like
>> That's pretty decent.
>> It's not bad. I mean, it was it's more
than I expected, but it's also a drop in
the bucket, right? And
then it just started growing like little
by little by little cuz we we weren't
doing any marketing. We
The crazy thing about Granola is all all
the like old-school yeah, note-takers
they're all
super optimized for like growth hacking.
They'll like at the end of the meeting
they'll send notes to everybody who was
in the meeting whether they wanted it or
not, whether you wanted it or not. And
Granola doesn't do anything like that.
It's like Granola's like our only job is
to serve the user and and give the user
wings.
>> The fact that Granola was
entering a space that was super crowded
and had zero growth loops built into it,
and it still grew virally, organically,
and kind of was able to to pop out and
become really visible in that space, I
think is a really there's something
going on there. I think it's a really
strong testament that people are hungry
for just better software and better
software experiences.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Interesting. So, basically all your
marketing is based on
>> People loving it. And
>> Great product. Exactly.
>> The whole company is based on that.
Yeah.
>> That's amazing. So, would it be your
advice for any entrepreneur building
something, don't think about marketing
yet, just think about the product and
people sharing it?
>> so cuz I think
to your point earlier, it's so noisy out
there right now. There's so many people
doing so many things, and there's so
much investment, right? So, there's so
much
advertising that's happening that I
think that if you don't have a product
that itself can like pop out and get
noticed and loved, it just feels like a
a losing proposition. By default, I
always think about very user-facing
products. I think it's very different if
you're going after customer support.
There it it's I think all about having
the right sales motion and and marketing
is a part of that. But but generally I
think if you don't have a good product
you're like it's the one thing that you
can go and make better with a small
team, right? And I think you should do
that up front rather than doing do that
later.
>> I have one final follow-up question
here. How many initially users did you
have? So, how much feedback were you
collecting before pushing it out to the
>> Yeah, we had about 150
active users after after that.
>> That's your friends and Yeah, that's
like your inner circle.
>> Yeah. Yeah, yeah, friends and friends
and friends and
>> What were you tracking when you gave it
out like cuz you couldn't see their
eyes, right? But who were you tracking
with the frequency of use?
>> Yeah, so what we would do is we would
we would set up a first call we we we do
it in person if we could, otherwise we
do a video call where we would ask them
to share their screen and then we would
watch them try to install Granola
>> Mhm.
>> and try to use it without us saying
anything. And then we would schedule a
call in 3 days, again share their screen
and walk through the the meetings they
use Granola for and talk about what was
good or not. And that that was the
highest signal. That's like the super
qualitative
that's where you learn the most. But
then once the product started getting
good enough that people would actually
use it, then we track usage. And there's
this
there's this thing I'd never heard about
it before before Granola, but one of our
mentors told us about it and it's a
thing called a dot plot. And a dot plot
basically it's think of it like a like a
like a spreadsheet and every row is a
user
>> Mhm.
>> and every column is a day.
>> Right? So, the default dot plot we had
would show the last 30 days and then in
each cell you basically put for our case
like how many meetings did they use
Granola for on that day.
>> Mhm.
>> And and then you change the color of the
cell. So, if they use it for like 10
meetings, you should make it like dark
green. If they use it for zero, you
should make it white. And then you can
at a glance very easily see like the
patterns. And
and the idea is that start with a dot
dot plot when the product's not very
good and then you iterate and you
iterate and you iterate and what you
should see happen you should see it
light up. Cuz normally when you do
analytics you get you you group all the
usage together and you just get like a
usage graph, right? Which you're like
cumulatively are people doing more
meetings or not? But that's not actually
very helpful in teaching you
what's wrong with your product and is it
working?
And then a dot plot you can see things
where it's like, "Oh, okay, like this
person was using it a lot and then they
stopped using it and then they like
clearly never did existed and started
using it again or like maybe they went
on vacation or you could be like, "Oh,
actually there's a few people who
started a little bit and then they had
like one day where they
did like five meetings and from then on
it became a habit and became hooked and
you can be like, "Oh, how do we get
people to get to have that kind of day?"
So it becomes like a very easy visual
way to to get a to stay on on top of the
pulse of what's happening with your
users.
>> Amazing. All right, talk to me about
your AI stack. What are you using apart
from Granola?
>> So,
I struggle with this question because I
try to use Granola for as many things as
possible and I use we haven't launched
it yet but I just got this Apple Watch
and that is a that's a really nice
feeling because it's just here all the
time.
>> Yeah, this is how I take my notes when I
go to conferences. Either I What do you
What do you use?
>> just voice notes and they go to my phone
and then I use whatever we're using to
transcribe. So, it's it's a journey.
It's a few steps.
>> For my notes, yeah.
>> Yeah, but in terms of form factor I
think the the Apple Watch is it just
feels it feels very nice.
>> Oh, 100%. Yeah, it it should be the form
factor for all the conferences and
everything.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, and then
next I mean I use Claude, right?
Claude's probably my second one
and then one of the engineers at Granola
set up this internal agent. We call it
Nacho. I actually don't know why we call
it Nacho. It has a little Nacho as the
icon and
we've connected basically all of our
internal tools to this one agent. So we
literally every single data source that
we have is accessible to this agent. And
there's like an internal portal, but we
also interact with it in Slack. And that
one's really interesting. So for
example, I will often times what will
happen is like I will notice something
kind of weird in the product because you
know, that's my job and I'll post about
it in Slack. And then someone will ask
Nacho to like be like, "Hey, can you
look at the analytics for the last
couple months and see if that's
supporting Chris's, you know, annoyance
or whatnot." And then
that'll come back and then someone will
be like, "Okay,
here what if we change the way this
worked and put
put a a button here instead?" And then
you ask Nacho and Nacho goes and talks
to Chris or and like prepares like
a change. So it still kind of goes off
the rails all the time. So we have to be
like, "No, Nacho like like that's not
what I wanted or you think harder, you
know, you made some assumptions here
that aren't right." So there's a still a
ton of human back and forth.
But it's it definitely changed the way
we've worked internally.
>> So it's basically I'm trying to describe
this role.
What what is he's not like a C like a
chief of staff. He's more like goes to
Does does he help him with strategic
decisions or is mostly like
>> Yeah,
it's it's it's a lot of like pull me
data.
Do this thing that would have been like
30 clicks before, you know, or like
opening up three tools and saving data
onto a file and uploading it somewhere
else. Just do all of that for me. So
it's it's in some ways it's like maybe
an intern would be the right, you know,
it's like we're not we're not
outsourcing big decisions or going to be
like, "Hey, go pull up the data. Go pull
up this thing. Look at how those two
connect. Okay, here's what we want to
do." So it's very much the ideas are
coming from us, not not from Nacho, but
Nacho's executing on it.
>> Did you use a tool for that or did was
it like built from scratch? I wonder
like cuz if you you can totally build
this with Perplexity computer or like
Google or like
>> Yeah, we didn't So I I actually have to
ask we didn't use anything like that.
It's something like Cloud Bot but it's
not Cloud Bot. I can't remember what
it's called.
Um and we run it we run it ourselves. So
that's why we're comfortable
with all that data, you know, going
through this agent because we we run it
and control it.
>> Okay. What what have you delegated to AI
or what are you doing without AI?
>> I think a lot of building great product,
it's all about how does this make me
feel?
>> Mhm.
>> Right? And a lot of it is human
intuition base. It's trying to put
myself in the shoes of another person
and and imagining how they'd how they'd
experience that. I just don't use AI for
that.
>> And you can't. What you're describing is
something so uniquely human.
>> We have some really young people on the
team and
they they just naturally default to
using AI for everything. It's It's just
like their like default behavior.
And more often than not I look at that
and I'm like, "Oh, that's clever. I
wouldn't have done that but that's
actually really smart and I should do
it." But I think the the product stuff
is probably
it's probably one of the last things at
least in in our immediate work that I
think we'll get um
I don't actually know if AI will ever
kind of fully fully get in there cuz I
think uh
I don't know.
The lived human experience is actually
the one thing that we have.
>> Totally. Totally.
>> Um what what it can help do though is so
we'll get lots of feedback from users,
right? And then grouping, classifying
that, basically making that feedback,
putting it into a form that's really
easy for us to like build intuitions on
top of and making decisions. Super
useful for that. But then actually what
do you do with those intuitions? What
changes you want to make? That that's
still very very manual.
>> And it's a very founder driven thing
because you're like the soul of the
product has your vibe so it has to have
your feelings. I don't know if you can
>> Yeah.
>> uh
put it into a product but I love that.
Do you have any I don't know. I call
them magic prompts that
totally change how you interact with the
app. For example, I just asked my
Granola, "Can you identify bottlenecks
in my company?" And it went and analyzed
my conversations. Like, number one, and
you know it, you're the bottleneck.
That was number one. And then it came up
with a few more things that we're
currently fixing. Do you have any other
prompts that anyone can use with their
AI that's going to change their work?
>> It all comes down to the AI needs to
have enough context. So, if you use
Granola in all your meetings, then it
does, and then you can ask it some
pretty incredible things. So, let's
let's just assume that the person's
doing that. Um
the the things that really opened up my
eyes, the way I was surprised at how
good they were, were um
coaching level things. Like, that really
there's a There's one recipe in Granola
which is called Coach Me Matt. What's
kind of great about coaching is that
harsh If you ask an AI for feedback, an
AI can give you harsh feedback, and
there's no person like It's not worried
about hurting your feelings, right? So,
that and it's an AI can say something to
me, and I think I can hear it better
than if like let's say my wife said
something to me, I might be a little bit
more defensive if that makes sense. So,
uh anything about like deep coaching,
hey, what are these like patterns you
observe in how I do things that maybe
I'm not aware of that are not helping or
that I could I can improve. That's a
really big one. Often times I'll go into
other tools. If I use ChatGPT or Claude,
they feel quite dumb to me compared to
Granola because they don't have all that
context baked in.
>> connect now.
>> I mean, you know, again, but but what I
mean by that is So, I have 2,000
meetings in in Granola or 2,500
meetings, right? So,
>> Wow.
>> when I ask Claude a question, it doesn't
read 2,500 meetings, right? It'll It'll
read 10. And it'll try to form a picture
about me from those 10 meetings, right?
So, I have a a recipe in Granola which
basically says, "Look at my last month
of meetings, and write me five pages
about who I am, what granola is, what's
the granola strategy.
>> try that? Can you give me my granola?
Can we Let's do it.
>> Yeah.
>> I really like this problem. Let me Let
me see what what it tells me.
>> Perfect. So, if I go here, and then we
just say, I'm going to use Chat GPT to
do some work, and I want Chat GPT to
understand who I who I am, what I'm
working on, and what I try to what I'm
trying to achieve, so it'll have better
context about me. So, please look at um
all my meetings from the last month, and
write three pages that I can paste into
Chat GPT, so it'll have all the context
on what I'm trying to achieve.
>> Wow. Oh, nice. It even extracted some
stats.
Pushing cadence.
Yeah. Nice.
>> So, what I find is now, if you take
this,
>> Mhm.
>> and you can go to any AI out there. You
can go to Chat GPT, you can go to
Claude, you can go to any
anything. And if you if you just say,
"Here's some context about me," and you
paste this in,
>> Mhm.
>> and then you ask whatever you're going
to ask, the AI will do such a better job
answering your questions because it
understands so much more about
>> on in my life?
>> Exactly.
>> So, because it's connected to my Claude,
>> Yeah.
>> how can I ask Claude to self-update
using this? To like add context to all
my projects.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, there's probably
some way we could set a trigger where it
does it every day or something like
that. Or you could just wait for us to
launch that soon.
That would be kind of cool, right? If
this thing
Basically, we're building a version of
this where it'll auto-update every day.
>> Mhm.
>> Um and then you could just use that
context anytime.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's This is fascinating.
So, I feel like you are building
something like a virtual chief of staff
based on
>> Moving towards it.
>> based on this data that you have. I also
write a newsletter where I go deeper on
AI tools that I use, career strategies,
and things I can't fit into a 30-minute
podcast. It's free. link is in the
description. We've been talking for
almost an hour, right? And I'm
remembering some things, but there is
some details that I might be missing
that are foreign to me. How does Granola
work in terms of picking out those
details? Uh how does it decide what to
surface? Cuz
>> In the notes, you mean?
>> Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
>> Yeah, so
>> Oh, nice. It gave me product strategy
and crowd of markets. I really like it.
Building in the AI era market dynamic
dynamics, product strategy.
>> What we realized early on is that what
are good notes for you would be very
different than what are good notes for
me.
>> Mhm.
>> Right? So,
like the point of notes is really uh
dependent on who the person is and what
they're trying to achieve.
>> Yeah.
>> I think we might have been the first to
do this. So, it's basically notes are
generated for each person and they're
different for each person. And what we
do is we take as much about the person
into account as possible. So, I don't
know if this was a calendar event, but
let's say you you join a Zoom meeting um
and use Granola. Granola will go and try
to do research and figure out who
everyone in that meeting is and what
their roles are. And then we'll use that
to figure out what isn't what the
meeting's about and like what should be
highlighted in those notes.
>> If I tell Granola, my goal for the next
few calls is to
I don't know, make sure we follow up
with everyone if we had agreed on
>> Yeah.
>> a to-do list.
>> Would it be highlighting that for me in
every meeting? Does it have like a
universal memory of how I want my notes
to present to be presented?
>> Not an automatic one yet.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah, so that's something you can go and
set up a template in Granola. You can
basically say
you can have different templates and and
so you can kind of say, I want notes in
this structure. During a call or during
a meeting, you can be like, "Hey
Granola, make sure to say include this
in the notes." And it will do that. But
it won't It doesn't have like a a memory
about you said this in the last call, so
I'm going to do it in the next call.
Which is um you have to be careful with
memory, I think. Like memory is super
powerful, but with explicit instructions
like that, the reality is like um we
underestimate how much things change,
right? What you don't want is you don't
want an instruction that like you said
you said something last month and like
Granola still thinks it's really
important and like keeps doing that.
>> There's a guy in my team which was like
I mentioned muffins, you know, like you
like he had one question about muffins
to chat GPT once and like now like chat
GPT just keeps bringing up muffins all
the time. It's like as a muffin
connoisseur, you know, it's like no, I
just I just asked about muffins and
that's why you have to be a little bit
careful with and that's the difference
if you use Granola a lot. The thing is
it's like there's just so much richness
and context in in in our conversations.
It's a little bit like um
I don't know, think about your best
friend and think how many hours you've
talked to your best friend and like how
well they know you. It's like very very
different than like if you're just
chatting with something like chat GPT or
Claude. It's like a very very
superficial.
>> Yeah, yeah, it's but once we fix that,
if we can make this dynamic memory based
on
like asking AI to identify my priorities
on a certain day
then this can become my chief of staff.
>> Mhm. Yeah.
>> If it can just pull those things like oh
now Marina's focused on that. I'm going
to help her in this meeting by
suggesting these questions. I'm going to
identify this process that's broken in
her team clearly cuz I've heard in
another calls within her company.
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz for me like recording my calls is
the way
is the way to build a virtual chief of
staff which we're trying to achieve.
>> yeah, I
I think almost
almost what everybody in AI is trying to
achieve really, right? Like like that's
that's that's I think
>> Some level of autonomy cuz for now I
feel like AI has made us much more
productive but it only means we're
working more. Cuz we see all this
productivity gains, we see how much
better it is and we just work more. What
I want the next step to be is like give
us some more free time in summer. I want
to take a few weeks off. I can't.
>> I I yeah, I think we kind of do that to
ourselves, though, a little bit.
>> Oh, true, but this is our nature.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's interesting like whether we're
going to cross this period in time where
AI is helping us with strategic
decisions, so we
uh intentionally take more time off. I
don't see this happening now.
Um
>> On the the point you were talking about
a second ago, which is a
there's this interesting question of how
are you going to um interact with this
chief of staff or the this AI, and how
directive are you going to be? Like
basically you're going to be like, "Oh,
always do this." Or give it instructions
and it always follows that. Or I think
there's a different model, which is like
the AI's almost a little bit in
invisible, and it just
observes what you do and then tries to
infer from that like what it should be
doing.
>> Yeah, exactly. That's what I wanted to
do.
>> Exactly.
>> What will Marina bring up in the next
meeting based on her previous meetings?
>> Exactly. Yeah, so cuz we A good example
here, months ago I tried building a
version of Granola generating um
follow-up emails. So like you'll connect
your Gmail,
and it will just learn from your
previous messages.
>> With that person? Or in general?
>> Yeah, no, both. Both. And so So like an
example there that's really important
is, for example, let's say um oftentimes
people will need to send a link to like
an important doc. Like for example,
before this you sent me a doc saying,
"Here are some instructions," right?
That doc might change. Like next month
you might decide to use a different doc.
>> Yeah.
>> And if it if you had to tell Granola
that you changed the doc, you might
forget. Whereas if it has access to your
emails and it notices that, "Oh, you now
use this new doc, I'm going to start
using this new doc." You don't have to
think about it at all. So I think this I
think a a great model for AI is one
where the best design things become
invisible, right? And And I And I think
the like the best AI is going to be
stuff that you don't even realize is
there. And that
>> Self-learning, self-updating,
learning from what's changing. This is
exactly what you're describing.
>> to get everyone at at Granola to think
about product in the the same way. And
um when someone new joins the company, I
basically paint them this picture where
I want Granola to feel like a handrail.
Do you know when you have stairs,
there's that that railing? And and
people always look at me like like what
do you mean by that? It's like such a
weird thing. And I'm saying, well, um
handrails are basically invisible,
right? They're on every staircase, you
never notice them, right? Uh you don't
pay attention to them until you trip,
right? And then your hand shoots out and
it needs to be like right there. And it
needs to like hold your weight. And it's
a really really important thing. And it
needs to be like super intuitive. But
then you go back to living your life and
going up and down the stairs. And and
that's that's how I want Granola to
feel. Like I want Granola to have your
back.
>> Mhm.
>> To to at any moment of need, it like if
you're tired, if you're tripping or
whatever, it's like we're right there
for you. But otherwise, you're the star
of the show, you know, you're they're
doing things. You're you're living your
life.
>> You know, whenever I post, like I'm
excited this company just launched this
and I've been using this company for so
long now I can do this.
Oh, why are you happy AI's
going to replace you in 3 months? Oh,
like corporations are just eating eating
us, whatever.
What would you say to those people?
>> I think the world's going to change a
lot over the next couple years.
And I think whenever there's a period of
a lot of change, there's going to be
turbulence. That is just a reality. And
I I don't think we're
I don't think anyone knows exactly where
we're going to end up. I'm excited about
AI as a tool that augments us and
enables us to do more and better things
than ever before. Um
and I think there's a lot of areas where
where that's the case, where actually
it AI's not going to replace people,
it's actually going to let people do
more. And um
there are all these
uh examples in history where all of a
sudden if something becomes more
accessible, the demand for it goes up
because now people can use it. That's
like Jevons paradox, I think it's
called.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not going to be everywhere though,
right? Like there's definitely going to
be
pockets of society where it's going to
be very disruptive, right? And I think
that's happened lots of times in history
as well, but it's like
change can changes can be exciting, but
it can also be really hard. I think it's
important to hold the excitement but
also the the reality of the downsides
in our minds at the same time.
Cuz I I think that's what's going to
happen.
>> What do you tell yourself when you have
fears about AI?
If you ever have them.
>> I So, my my view there is I think about
what I can control. Generally, this is
my my philosophy in life. I think about
what I can control and things I can't
control and I don't worry about the
things I can't control. And I think
about the things you can control is if
you believe AI is going to have a big
impact, then you should try to stay
close to it. And by that, I I think you
should you should try to use it. And I
think that's really the only thing you
can do.
>> Totally. 100%.
>> And I think that
and I've seen this. I've seen cuz I
think what's happening with engineering
is it's like you can kind of see what
happens in engineering and the same
thing that's going to happen with coding
and engineering is going to happen in
other sectors later.
And
I see
again, we have a guy in our team, he's
20 and he's
the way he uses AI is incredible and
he's just able to do all kinds of
incredible things that I never would
have expected. And so like I think the
only advice I have to people is like
don't shy away from it and and and lean
into it. And that doesn't mean you need
to There's a lot of like AI theater,
productivity theater. It's like I think
that there's a lot of people there's
almost like more talk about how AI has
helped them than it's actually helping
them be more productive, right? I think
we're I think we're in the productivity
AI productivity theater phase. But I
think we're going to come out on the
other end of that where it just really
does augment your productivity
tremendously, but it doesn't mean you
have to spend 24/7, you know, like
following every single launch. Like I
that's that's not what I mean. What I
mean is um
think about the core things that you are
good at, that you need to achieve in
your job, and figure out how you could
augment those
uh with with AI. And like we were
talking about for product, for me it's
not uh how do I get how do I get ChatGPT
to make product decisions, but it's
maybe how do I get AI to
uh
>> Get all the data.
>> the data so I can better better inform
to make better product decisions. So
that that's how I would think about it.
I've you know, I have a 6-year-old and
an 8-year-old, and and I think about
what's the world going to look like when
they're older, and and I I I don't know,
right? But um it's perhaps going to be a
little bit easier for them because it
the world's going to change a lot over
the next few years. So well, I don't I
mean, again, I don't know, but it's
they're going to they're already growing
up in a world where
ChatGPT is normal, right?
Whereas I think if you are maybe in your
mid-20s right now, uh like early in your
career, and now there's all this change
that's happening. I think that's a
that's perhaps a harder time. But again,
maybe it's easier than if you're in your
40s, I don't know, you know, like I it's
hard to tell.
>> Yeah. Okay, and last advice for founders
building in the AI era. What should they
be avoiding?
>> I think this has always been the case,
but it's it's so much more extreme with
AI. There's so much noise. Um
there's so much FOMO, there's so much
imposter syndrome. Like if if you were
just if you just look at Twitter, you
you'd assume that everything is just
like solved. And oh AI is going to take
over the world.
And um
and I think the real the reality is very
far from that. And I think
ultimately, the thing you can do, again,
what can you control, is you can
understand a problem and a user better
than anybody else in the world if you
really wanted to, and you can just care
more about building a really great
solution for those folks. And
you can have a peripheral awareness of
of other stuff that's happening. I think
it's good to understand directionally
where things are going.
But do not let it mess with your head
because it's so easy to obsess and to
look at those things and to assume that
they have it figured out. And the shiny
objects and it's like the what's the the
fashion of this week versus that week or
what have you.
But the underlying problem that you're
trying to solve, that probably hasn't
changed at all in the last like two
weeks, right? Or even the last two
years, probably. And so like that's
that's what you need to work on, right?
That's your job. It's exciting, but it's
also you have to you have to manage that
mentally because otherwise you'll you'll
>> You'll be too distracted. And you have
to care more about your particular
problem. Yeah. Love it. Thank you so
much. It was
Thank you.